---
date: 2022-12-30
layout: post
title: Terminal
subtitle: What is a terminal and how do I use it?
description: Going over basic terminal commands
image: /assets/img/terminal.webp
optimized_image: /assets/img/terminal.webp
category: code
tags:
  - terminal
  - commands
  - github
---

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/yI9pyl2DaZ4" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<h2>MOST IMPORTANT</h2>
- <mark>cd: Change directory</mark>
- <mark>ls: List files and directories in the current directory</mark>
- <mark>sudo: Admin access</mark>
- <mark>clear: Clears the terminal screen</mark>
- <mark>nano: Text editors for creating or editing files</mark>
- <mark>rm: Deletes file</mark>
- <mark>git clone: Downloads files from a Github repository</mark>

<h2>Navigating Directories:</h2>
- cd: Change directory.
- ls: List files and directories in the current directory.
- pwd: Print the current working directory.
- mkdir: Create a new directory.
- rmdir: Remove an empty directory.

<h2>Working with Files:</h2>
- touch: Create an empty file.
- cp: Copy files or directories.
- mv: Move (rename) files or directories.
- rm: Remove (delete) files or directories.

<h2>Viewing and Editing Files:</h2>
- cat: Display the content of a file.
- more or less: View file content interactively.
- nano or vim: Text editors for creating or editing files.

<h2>Process Management:</h2>
- ps: List running processes.
- top or htop: Monitor system processes and resource usage.
- kill or killall: Terminate processes.

<h2>File Permissions:</h2>
- chmod: Change file permissions.
- chown: Change file ownership.

<h2>Getting Help:</h2>
- man: Display the manual pages for commands.
- --help: Most commands support this flag to show usage information.

<h2>Network Commands:</h2>
- ping: Check network connectivity to a host.
- ifconfig or ip: Display network interface information.
- ssh: Securely connect to remote servers.

<h2>Archiving and Compression:</h2>
- tar: Archive files and directories.
- gzip or gunzip: Compress or decompress files.

<h2>Miscellaneous:</h2>
- echo: Print text to the terminal.
- date: Display or set system date and time.
- clear or Ctrl+L: Clears the terminal screen.
- history: View the command history.





